DOCSUP-9868: Implicit key type conversion for JOIN (#26335)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/operations/settings/settings.md

Default value: `ALL`.

## join_algorithm {#settings-join_algorithm}

Specifies [JOIN](../../sql-reference/statements/select/join.md) algorithm.

Possible values:

> - 'hash' — [Hash join algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_join) is used.
> - 'partial_merge' — [Sort-merge algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sort-merge_join) is used.
> - 'prefer_partial_merge' — ClickHouse always tries to use `merge` join if possible.
> - 'auto' — ClickHouse tries to change `hash` join to `merge` join on the fly to avoid out of memory.

Author: ```suggestion
- `hash` — [Hash join algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_join) is used.
- `partial_merge` — [Sort-merge algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sort-merge_join) is used.
- `prefer_partial_merge` — ClickHouse always tries to use `merge` join if possible.
- `auto` — ClickHouse tries to change `hash` join to `merge` join on the fly to avoid out of memory.
```

Default value: `hash`.

When using `hash` algorithm the right part of `JOIN` is uploaded into RAM. 

> When using `partial_merge` algorithm ClickHouse sorts the data and dumps it to the disk. The `merge` algorithm in ClickHouse differs a bit from the classic realization. First ClickHouse sorts the right table by [join key](../../sql-reference/statements/select/join.md#select-join) in blocks and creates min-max index for sorted blocks. Then it sorts parts of left table by `join key` and joins them over right table. The index is also used to skip unneeded right table blocks.

Reviewer: To clarify that we tell about same min-max index, not index of table
```suggestion
When using `partial_merge` algorithm ClickHouse sorts the data and dumps it to the disk. The `merge` algorithm in ClickHouse differs a bit from the classic realization. First ClickHouse sorts the right table by [join key](../../sql-reference/statements/select/join.md#select-join) in blocks and creates min-max index for sorted blocks. Then it sorts parts of left table by `join key` and joins them over right table. The min-max index is also used to skip unneeded right table blocks.
```
